Okay, Here's the number for poison control.
Ask for Carol.

Honey, we're gonna be fine.
Enjoy your reunion.

It'd be a lot more fun if you were there.

I really am sorry about that.
I just can't miss the chance to bowl on Jay's team.

Mnh.

That's why I ordered these glide rights.
If you break'em in properly,
They're supposed to give you a completely frictionless.

(thud)
(groans)

If I'm being honest,
The reunion might be a little more fun
if Phil isn't there.
Otherwise, I spend the whole weekend telling him
who's who and explaining inside jokes.
And if all that explaining is going out,
the alcohol is not going IN.

Hey, Mom.
Before you go, you have to sign this for school.
You don't have to read it.
It's all boilerplate.

Honey, I am running really late.
Ask your dad.

Right here, Buddy. Suhh! (thud)

I have to get the letter signed.
Because I failed my assignment on the revolutionary war.
I recreated the battle of bunker hill
using one of my old science projects.
Seemed pretty revolutionary to me.

The brave patriots made their way up the hillside,
Prepared for whatever
The devious red coats might inflict next.

(scoffs) Now you work?!

So, Dad-

One second, Buddy.
The salesman said when you're breaking these shoes in,
It's easier to move side to side.

Son of a gun. He was right.
What do we got here?

Uhh! (thud)

I've waited a year for this day.
The annual trade association scratch bowling tournament.
Last year, we lost to our biggest rival.
Frazier had Ali. Pritchett's Closets has
Closets, Closets, Closets, Closets.
It's a stupid name, But those cats can bowl.

Ay, I knew the pancakes would bring you down.

Just coffee for me today.
Black, Like I feel on the inside.

Ay, Manny.
Please, It was only one bad audition.

No, three bad auditions,
Fall Assembly, "Phantom", and now the Spring Sing.
I'm a disaster.

You're always so dramatic.

Dramatic, Mother?

I am sure that Cam is gonna call you today
and give you the solo.
You're always so hard on yourself.
Remember that you said
that you didn't have a face for hats?
And?

(mutters) I look great in every hat.

I can't hear you.

I look great in every hat.

Well, Enjoy that while it lasts.
I had a pretty good hat run,
But then I saw a photo of myself from the dude ranch.
I look like reba at the grammys.

(chuckles) I see that you found the fur.
