## FCM 사용하기

### Firebase Cloud Messaging

Firebase Cloud Messaging(FCM)은 신뢰성있으면서도 무료로 사용할 수 있는 크로스 플랫폼 메시징 서비스입니다.[^Firebase_Blog]  [^Firebase]  

#### Key functions

* Send notification messages or data messages
* Versatile message targeting
* Send messages from client apps

#### How does it work?

* ?

#### Implementation path

1. Set up the FCM SDK
2. Develop your client app
3. Develop your app server

### Setting Up a Firebase Cloud Messaging Client App on iOS

two complementary ways

* Receive basic push messages up to 2KB over the Firebase Cloud Messaging APNs interface
* Send messages upstream and/or receive downstream payloads up to 4KB

The quickstart example provides sample code.[^QuickStart]


#### Method swizzling in Firebase Cloud Messaging

The FCM API performs method swizzling[^Method_Swizzling] in two key areas

* mapping your APNs token to the FCM registration token
* capturing analytics data during downstream message callback handling

swizzling disable : the flag `FirebaseAppDelegateProxyEnabled` in the app’s **Info.plist** file - `NO`.

the guides provide code examples, both with and without method swizzling enabled.

#### Add Firebase to your iOS project

For Notifications specifically

* upload your APNs certificate and 
* register for remote notifications

##### Prerequisites

Before you begin, you need a few things set up in your environment:

* Xcode 7.0 or later.
* For Cloud Messaging:
	* A physical iOS device.
	* APNs certificate with Push Notifications enabled.
* An Xcode project and its bundle identifier.
* CocoaPods 1.0.0 or later.

##### Add Firebase to your app

It's time to add Firebase to your app. To do this you'll need 

* a Firebase project 
* a Firebase configuration file for your app

Process

1. Create a Firebase project in the Firebase console : **Create New Project**
	* an existing Google project associated with your mobile app : **Import Google Project**
2. Click **Add Firebase to your iOS app** and follow the setup steps. 
	* If you're importing an existing Google project
		* this may happen automatically
		* just **download the config file**.
3. When prompted, enter your app's **bundle ID**.
	* It's important to enter the bundle ID your app is using; this can only be set when you add an app to your Firebase project.
4. At the end, you'll download a `GoogleService-Info.plist` file. 
	* You can download this file again at any time.
5. If you haven't done so already, copy this into your Xcode project root.

아래의 설명이 나오면 따라하면 됨

* Enter app details
* Copy config file
* Install pod
* Add initialization code

**Install Pod**

1. Create a Podfile : `$ pod init`
2. Open the Podfile and add : `pod 'Firebase'`[^QuickStart] 
3. Save the file and run : `$ pod install` 

This creates an .xcworkspace file for your app.   
Use this file for all future development on your application.

* pod file에 들어갈 내용은 구글 사이트의 내용이 조금 잘 못 된 것이라, 고칠 필요가 있다. 

**Add initialization code**

To connect Firebase when your app starts up, add the initialization code below to your main AppDelegate class.

```
import UIKit
import Firebase

@UIApplicationMain
class AppDelegate: UIResponder, UIApplicationDelegate {

  var window: UIWindow?

  func application(application: UIApplication,
    didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [NSObject: AnyObject]?)
    -> Bool {
    FIRApp.configure()
    return true
  }
}
```

##### Add the SDK

If you are setting up a new project, you need to install the SDK.

using CocoaPods to install the libraries.

`Install Pod`에 있는 내용들과 같은 내용이다.

##### Upload your APNs certificate

Upload your APNs certificate to Firebase. If you don't already have an APNs certificate, see `Provisioning APNs SSL Certificates`.

1. Inside your project in the Firebase console, select the gear icon, select **Project Settings**, and then select the **Cloud Messaging** tab.
2. Select the **Upload Certificate** button for your development certificate, your production certificate, or both. At least one is required.
3. For each certificate, select the `.p12` file, and provide the password, if any. Make sure the bundle ID for this certificate matches the bundle ID of your app. Select **Save**.

##### Initialize Firebase in your app

You'll need to add Firebase initialization code

1. Import the Firebase module:

	```
	import Firebase
	```
	
2. Configure a FIRApp shared instance, typically in your application's application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions: method:

	```
	// Use Firebase library to configure APIs
	FIRApp.configure()
	```

위 처럼 했을 경우 `Use of unresolved identifier 'FIRApp'` 에러가 발생할 수 있는데 `pod update`로 문제를 해결할 수 있다. [^Pod_Update]

##### Register for remote notifications

Either at startup, or at the desired point in your application flow, register your app for remote notifications. Call `registerForRemoteNotifications` as shown:

```
let settings: UIUserNotificationSettings =
UIUserNotificationSettings(forTypes: [.Alert, .Badge, .Sound], categories: nil)
application.registerUserNotificationSettings(settings)
application.registerForRemoteNotifications()
```

in the `AppDelegate.swift`

#### Receive messages through the FCM APNs interface

receive messages through the FCM APNs interface

start sending notifications to user segments with the Notifications console[^Notifications_Console]

##### Swizzling disabled: receive messages through the FCM APNs interface.

If you have disabled method swizzling, you'll need to explicitly map your APNs token to the FCM registration token.

* Override the methods `didRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithDeviceToken` to retrieve the APNs token
* call `setAPNSToken`

Provide your APNs token and the token type in `setAPNSToken:type:`. Make sure that the value of type is correctly set: `FIRInstanceIDAPNSTokenTypeSandbox` for the sandbox environment, or `FIRInstanceIDAPNSTokenTypeProd` for the production environment. 

If you don't set the correct type, messages are not delivered to your app.

```
func application(application: UIApplication,
                   didRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithDeviceToken deviceToken: NSData) {
  FIRInstanceID.instanceID().setAPNSToken(deviceToken, type: FIRInstanceIDAPNSTokenTypeSandbox)
}
```

#### Receive messages through FCM

To receive or send messages through FCM (not just the APNs interface), you'll need to connect to the FCM service.

Connect when your application becomes active and whenever a new registration token is available. Once your app is connected, FCM ignores subsequent attempts to connect.

After your app is connected, you can send downstream and upstream messages and use topic messaging and device group messaging. 

```
func connectToFcm() {
  FIRMessaging.messaging().connectWithCompletion { (error) in
    if (error != nil) {
      print("Unable to connect with FCM. \(error)")
    } else {
      print("Connected to FCM.")
    }
  }
}
```

When your app goes into the background, disconnect from FCM:

```
func applicationDidEnterBackground(application: UIApplication) {
  FIRMessaging.messaging().disconnect()
  print("Disconnected from FCM.")
}
```

#### Import existing user APNs tokens

If you have an existing user base that you want to onboard to an FCM client app, use the batchImport API provided by Instance ID. With this API, you can bulk import existing iOS APNs tokens into FCM, mapping them to new, valid registration tokens.

이 부분은 잘 모르겠다. 나중에 다시 확인하자.

### Downstream Messages

This guide provides instructions for sending messages downstream, from your app server to Firebase Cloud Messaging client apps.

It describes "simple" messaging from your app server to a client app on a device, as opposed to routing downstream messages through topics or device groups.

#### Send downstream messages

자체 서버가 있다면 어떻게 메시지를 앱에 보내면 되는지를 설명하는 것 같다.
이부분은 서버쪽에서 신경쓰는 거라서 앱 자체에서는 몰라도 상관없을 것 같다. 

To address or "target" a downstream message, the app server sets to with the receiving client app's registration token. 

You can send notification messages with predefined fields, or custom data messages; 

see Message types for details on payload support. Examples in this page show how to send data messages in HTTP and XMPP protocols.

##### HTTP POST Request

```
https://fcm.googleapis.com/fcm/send
Content-Type:application/json
Authorization:key=AIzaSyZ-1u...0GBYzPu7Udno5aA

{ "data": {
    "score": "5x1",
    "time": "15:10"
  },
  "to" : "bk3RNwTe3H0:CI2k_HHwgIpoDKCIZvvDMExUdFQ3P1..."
}
```

##### XMPP Message

```
<message id="">
  <gcm xmlns="google:mobile:data">
    { "data": {
      "score": "5x1",
      "time": "15:10"
    },
    "to" : "bk3RNwTe3H0:CI2k_HHwgIpoDKCIZvvDMExUdFQ3P1..."
  }
  </gcm>
</message>
```

For the full list of message options available when sending downstream messages to client app, see the reference information for your chosen connection server protocol, HTTP or XMPP.

#### Receiving messages on an iOS client app

To receive simple downstream messages, each client app needs to access its registration token and implement some methods on the `FIRMessaging` and `AppDelegate` APIs.

##### Access the registration token

By default, the FCM SDK generates a registration token for the client app instance on initial startup of your app. If you want to target single devices, or create device groups for FCM, you'll need to access this token.

This section describes how to retrieve the token and how to monitor changes to the token. Because the token could be rotated after initial startup, you are strongly recommended to retrieve the latest updated registration token unless you have a specific need to directly retrieve the current token.

The registration token may change when:

* The app deletes Instance ID
* The app is restored on a new device
* The user uninstalls/reinstall the app
* The user clears app data.

##### Retrieve the current registration token

When you need to retrieve the current token, call `FIRInstanceID.instanceID().token()` This method returns null if the token has not yet been generated.

```
let token = FIRInstanceID.instanceID().token()!
```

##### Monitor token generation

You can access the token's updated value by adding an observer that listens to `kFIRInstanceIDTokenRefreshNotification` then retrieve the token from the observer's selector. In this example, `tokenRefreshNotification` is the selector used to handle the callback:

```
func tokenRefreshNotification(notification: NSNotification) {
  let refreshedToken = FIRInstanceID.instanceID().token()!
  print("InstanceID token: \(refreshedToken)")

  // Connect to FCM since connection may have failed when attempted before having a token.
  connectToFcm()
}
```

in the `AppDelegate.swift`

자체 서버가 있다면 connectToFcm()을 자체 서버 연결 부부으로 바꿔주면 될 것이다.

이 다음부터는 받은 메시지를 처리하는 부분인 것 같다.

##### Swizzling disabled: mapping your APNs token and registration token

##### Receive and handle messages

Implement `AppDelegate application:didReceiveRemoteNotification:` to handle notifications received when the client app is in the foreground, and all data messages that are sent to the client.

##### Handling messages with method swizzling disabled

If you disable method swizzling, you'll need to call method appDidReceiveMessage:. This lets FCM track message delivery and analytics, which is performed automatically with method swizzling enabled.

##### Receive and handle messages with `notification` in the payload

When your app is in the background, iOS directs messages with with `notification` to the system tray. A user tap on a notification opens the app, and the content of the notification is passed to a `didReceiveRemoteNotification` callback if implemented in the `AppDelegate`.

If you want to open your app and perform a specific action, set `click_action` in the notification payload. Use the value that you would use for the category key in the APNs payload.

### Provisioning APNs SSL Certificates

The Firebase Cloud Messaging APNs interface uses the Apple Push Notification service (APNs).[^APNS]

To enable sending Push Notifications through APNs:

* an SSL certificate associated with an App ID configured for Push Notifications.
* a provisioning profile for that App ID.

You create both in the Apple Developer Member Center.

#### Create the SSL Certificate

to generate an SSL certificate for an App ID enabled for Push Notifications

Firebase Cloud Messaging will use this certificate to send Push Notifications to the application identified by the App ID.

##### Generate a Certificate Signing Request File

To authenticate the creation of the SSL certificate, you need a certificate signing request file.

1. Open Keychain Access on your Mac
2. On the Keychain Access app menu, navigate to **Keychain Access > Certificate Assistant > Request a Certificate From a Certificate Authority...**.
3. Input your email address and name.
4. For **Request is** **select Saved to disk**, then click **Continue** to save the `.certSigningRequest` file to your Mac.

아래의 App ID는 만들 필요가 없지만 CSR은 만들어야 한다. 나중에 업로드 해서 `.p12` 파일을 만들게 된다. 

##### Create an App ID

An App ID is an identifier that uniquely identifies an app.

1. Navigate to the Apple Developer Member Center and sign in.
2. Navigate to **Certificates, Identifiers and Profiles**.
3. In the drop down menu on the top left corner, select **iOS, tvOS, watchOS**, then navigate to **Identifiers**.
4. Click the **+** button to create a new App ID.
5. To create the new App ID:
	* Input a **Name** for your App ID (e.g. Firebase Sample App)
	* Choose an **App ID Prefix** (the default selection should be fine)
	* In the App ID Suffix section, select **Explicit App ID**, then input your **Bundle ID**. The value of the Bundle ID should match the value that you are using in your app's `Info.plist` and the value that you are using to get a configuration for FCM.
	* In the **App Services** section, make sure that **Push Notifications** is checked.
6. Click **Continue** and check that your input is correct:
	* The value of **Identifier** should match the concatenation of the values of the App ID Prefix and of the Bundle ID
	* **Push Notifications** should be **Configurable**
7. Click **Submit** to create the App ID.

예전 방식인 것 같다. Xcode의 **Capabilities** 만으로 설정할 수 있는지 알아보자. : 결국 만들긴 해야 한다. 개발 과정에서는 아무거나 하더라도 앱스토어에 올리려면 웹에서 반드시 새로 만들 필요가 있다. 
 
이제는 인증서 자체를 Xcode에서 설정한 bundle ID로 직접 만들 수 있을 것이다. 이러면 웹에서 인증서를 처리할 필요가 없을 수 있다. : 이게 아닌거 같다.

하지만 Push Notifications의 configuration을 하기 위한 인증서는 따로 만들어야 한다. 이건 아래에 설명하고 있다.

##### Configure an App ID for Push Notifications

To send Push Notifications to an iOS App, you must configure its App ID to do so.

1. In the list of iOS App IDs, select the one you want to use, then click **Edit**.
2. In the **Push Notifications** section, you can create a Client SSL certificate for the development or production environment. Create one for development clicking **Create Certificate...** in the **Development SSL Certificate** section.
	* 여기서 **Development SSL Certificate** 를 선택한 것은 개발 과정에서 사용하기 위함이고, 배포하기 위해서는 다른 것을 선택해야 한다. 
3. You should now see a section called **About Creating a Certificate Signing Request (CSR)** that contains information about creating a CSR. Click **Continue**.
4. You should now be in the **Generate** section of the flow. Click **Choose File...** and select the `.certSigningRequest` file that you created before, then click **Generate** when it becomes active.
	* 이 과정에서 앞서 만들었던 인증서를 업로드한다.
5. When the SSL certificate is ready, click **Download** to save it to your Mac, and click **Done** to close the certificate creation flow.
6. On your Mac, locate the downloaded SSL certificate and double-click it to install it in your keychain.
7. On your Mac, open Keychain Access. Under **My Certificates**, locate the certificate that you have just added; it should be called `Apple Development IOS Push Services: your.bundle.id`.
8. Expand the arrow and then right-click and export the private key as a `.p12` file. Enter a password to protect the exported certificate if you want.
	* `.p12` file을 직접 사용하지 않는거라면 왜 만드는걸까? : 이건 구글에 제출하는 것이다!! 

The app is now enabled to use the Push Notification development environment. When you are ready to release your application, you need to enable the app to use the Push Notification production environment: repeat these steps, but click **Create Certificate** under the **Production SSL Certificate** section instead of **Development SSL Certificate**.

> If you are calling `setAPNSToken`, make sure that the value of **type** is correctly set:  
> **FIRInstanceIDAPNSTokenTypeSandbox** for the sandbox environment, or **FIRInstanceIDAPNSTokenTypeProd** for the production environment. If you don't set the correct type, messages will not be delivered to your app.

#### Create the Provisioning Profile

이 과정은 없어도 Xcode에서 자체 처리 될 것 같다. App ID와 Provisioning Profile의 경우 개발자 등록을 하면 Xcode에서 bundle ID 설정하면서 알아서 관리할 것 같다. (좀 더 알아보자.)

Xcode와 웹이 자동으로 연동될 것이다.

하지만, 결국 App ID를 새로 만든다면 이것도 반드시 새로 해줘야 한다고 볼 수 있다.  적어도 앱스토어에 올릴려면 앱마다 App ID 와 Provisioning Profile을 웹에서 만들어 줘야 한다고 이해하면 될 것이다.

To test your app while under development, you need a Provisioning Profile for development to authorize your devices to run an app that is not yet published on the App Store.

1. Navigate to the Apple Developer Member Center and sign in.
2. Navigate to **Certificates, Identifiers and Profiles**.
3. In the drop down menu on the top left corner, select **iOS, tvOS, watchOS**, then navigate to **Provisioning Profiles**.
4. Click the **+** button to create a new Provisioning Profile.
5. Select **iOS App Development** as provisioning profile type, then click **Continue**.
6. In the drop down menu, select the App ID you want to use, then click **Continue**.
7. Select the iOS Development certificate of the App ID you have chosen in the previous step, then click **Continue**.
8. Select the iOS devices that you want to include in the Provisioning Profile, then click **Continue**. Make sure to select all the devices you want to use for your testing.
9. Input a name for this provisioning profile (e.g. Firebase Sample App Development Profile), then click Generate.
10. Click Download to save the Provisioning Profile to your Mac.
11. Double-click the Provisioning Profile file to install it.

### 참고 자료

[^Firebase_Blog]: [Firebase, 통합 앱 플랫폼으로 확장](http://googledevkr.blogspot.kr/2016/05/firebase-8-firebase-google43.html)

[^Firebase]: [Welcome to Firebase](https://console.firebase.google.com)

[FIRMessaging Class](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/ios/firebasemessaging/interface_f_i_r_messaging#method-detail)

[^QuickStart]: [Firebase Messaging Quickstart](https://github.com/firebase/quickstart-ios/tree/master/messaging/)

[Downstream Messages](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/downstream)

[Updating CocoaPods](https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html)

[^APNS]: [Apple Push Notification Service](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/Chapters/ApplePushService.html)

[^Pod_Update]: [iOS - Firebase error: Use of unresolved identifier FIRApp running supplied code](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/37328508/ios-firebase-error-use-of-unresolved-identifier-firapp-running-supplied-code)

[^Notifications_Console]: [Send a message from the Notifications console](https://firebase.google.com/docs/notifications/ios/console-audience#add_the_sdk)

[^Method_Swizzling]: [Method Swizzling이란?](http://minsone.github.io/mac/ios/what-is-method-swizzling-in-swift)