Morning, Mike. How's it hanging?

Oh. Fine, Dave. just fine.

Listen, we got the files for the new crop of incoming, and the Big Guy thinks it's time for you to fly solo.

I get to design it myself?

You've been an apprentice long enougn.
You're ready.

Oh, Dave. I'm gonna work so hard.
My design is gonna be absolutely perfect.

Easy there, rookie.
Starting immediately, you'll be reporting directly to the front office.

Okay, I guess I'll speak first.
Jason and I are the mistakes.
We're the ones who misled everybody and dragged you all into this mess, so, we should go to the Bad Place.

Agreed.

Yes.

Okay. I thought you were gonna at least pretend to fight me on that, but whatever.

Hang on. That judge guy just said everyone here has done bad things.
Let't look at this ethnically.

Ethically.

You guys helped me and Eleanor, right, but we're bad, so you helping us was bad.
It's basic consequentialism, the morality of an action is solely judged on its consequences.

Great. [chuckles]
The one time you actually remember something from class.

Maybe I was brought here by mistake, but since we've been here, I just tried to stay out of everyone's way.
Chidi's done worse stuff than me.
He murdered Janet.
He killed my wife!

I was trying to stop you from doing it!

Yeah, but you did it.
He who smelt it murdered Janet.

Well, it's settled then.
Eleanor and Jianyu are leaving.

For the last time, my name is Jason, not Jianyu, the amazing and incredible monk.

Which is why you being in the Bad Place.

And by the way, Janet is not your wife, or your soulmate.
There's a Janet in every neighborhood.

Well, I'm in love with this Janet.
We did a bunch of amazing, awesome stuff which almost turned out to be sex, and we were married in a legal ceremony.

It was not legal.

Okay. J-bones, you and me, outside.

What? But...
I'm not going. I don't wanna.

Well, I don't wanna either, but let's face it.
Chidi and Tahani are better people than we are.
We tried to improve ourselves and we did a good job.
Well, I did a good job.
You mostly fell asleep in class or made fart noises with your hands.

I could never do that on Earth.
This place truly is paradise.

Look at them.
Whispering away like two beefeaters on a tea break.
I bet they're plotting against us.

No way. Eleanor wouldn't to that.

You do have feelings for her, don't you?

Yes.
But no. Please don't make me think about this again.
My brain will break.

I'm sorry, it's just that I have certain feelings for you.
I don't mean to contribute to your misery, it's just that I'm frightened.
I don't have an actual soulmate.
What's gonna happen to me when Jason and Fake Eleanor go and you're off with Real Eleanor?
Whither Tahani?

Okay, team meeting.
Jason has agreed that the two of us should go.

Bye, Tahani.
Sorry for everything.
After I'm gone, you can go ahead and clean out my bud hole.

Thank you.

I love you so mush, baby.
Promise me you'll visit.

I will not.
It is literally impossible for me to do that.

Well, it's been real, dawg.
Sorry, that's how I ended most of my serious relationships.

Yeah. Mmm. that checks out.
I feel like I failed you.

No. Don't ever think that.
I was dropped into a cave, and you were my flashlight.

Oh!
Goodbye forever.
I will miss you so mush.

Ugh. I'll miss you too, you sexy skyscraper.
All right. Ready to go?
Let's grab Michael.

Come in.

Hi, guys. Sorry to interrupt.
Um, I'm going to the Bad Place.
I'm taking one of the slots.

What?

Awesome.


This is a real mess, huh?
No matter what they decide, I'd bet you're gonna be in pretty hot water with your boss.
Wouldn't be surprised if retirement were on the table.

Retirement?

Of course, what do I know?
I'm just the All-Knowing Judge of All Matters in the afterlife.
But face it, this is your mistake.
