Oh...
Well, that is something.

I know you've gone through a lot, and now I'm throwing this at you, but I just..
I had to tell you how I feel.
I love you. No need to respond.

Great.

Well. at some point,
you'll respond, right?
I just meant no rush.

You wanna talk about  eggs again?

[laughs forcedly] 억지 웃음


Thank you all for participating in our focus group for Fake Eleanor.
Think of this as open forum for you to air any and all grievances that you may carry against her.

I was flying on the second day, and when you caused the trash storm, I crashed into a rotting turkey carcass, and it exploded.

Oh, dear.

All this cartilage and bone got tangled up in my hair, and its skin was all over my skin.
I didn't know where I ended and the turkey carcass began.

Well, if it makes you feel any better, your skin looks amazing.

My cafe got destroyed by the giant frog, then I reopened it and it fell into the sinkhole.

Just like me. I fell in, too.

Who else feels that Eleanor has ruined every moment of your existence since you arrived?
Excellent.
I must confer with Eleanor for a talk, so please, just enjoy the lemonade and cookies.

It seems everyone's problem with me is me.

Yes, it would appear that way.

Janet, there you are.
Some residents are complaining that you're not responding...
I'm sorry, what's going on?
Is that a wedding ring?

Yes.
I'm married.

To whom?

Sorry, my protocol forbids me from telling you any private information about any resident.

Is it that person?
Jianyu, the man standing right there, also wearing a wedding band?

Dad...
We need to talk.

I just want to make sure that I have this right.
Um, Jianyu is not a Taiwanese monk, but rather someone named Jason Mendoza, a failed DJ form Jacksonville, Florida.

I wasn't a failed DJ, I was pre-successful.

And you two are married.

Hells yeah, homey. We love each other.
She makes the bass drop...
In my heart.

And Jason is a person who was near me, and then he asked me to marry him, and there is nothing in my protocol that specifically barred that form happening.
So I agreed.

Love you too, babe.

[sighing]

Janet,
Please tell me how this could have happened.

Unclear.
As you know, each time I am updated, I accrue new knowledge and abilities.
My suspicion is that when I was rebooted, I bonded with Jason in a way that I have never bonded with anyone before.
I seem to have gained a new understanding of love.
I also learned how to do this.

Have you ever paid money to hear music performed by California func-rock band the Red Hot Chili Peppers?

Yo, the Chilis?
I saw them in concert like 50 times.

[beeps]

I once got arrested trying to steal Flea's bass guitar.

[beeps]

Oh, that was another serious crime I committed.
I should have mentioned that earlier.

[beeps]

Is it just me, or am I acing this test?

Oh, this is bad.
Oh, this is so, so bad.
Oh, I thought I had everything under control when I found Eleanor, but somehow, you are...
You're so much worse.
No, don't... Don't touch...
Oh...

Eleanor, for an utter novice, you have thrown a lovely party.

Well, thanks, but it's not working.
Not one more point.
What the fork?

Hello, everyone.
Good to see you all here, mingling around with your various secrets.
Who really knows which of you are who you say you are.
No way to know unless I pull your skeletons, right?
Okay. Take her easy.

Yes. Well said.
Now, we shall hear from tonight's featured guest.

What can you possibly say to us that'll make up for your actions?

Pobody's nerfect?


There's no way to increase my point total because everything I'm doing is out of self-preservation.
My motivation is corrupt.
Even when I do nice things, I'm only doing them so I can get soemthing out of it, the ability to stay here, which means none of this had any real moral value.
It doesn't count.

Holy shirt.


Oh, good morning, Dad. Where you been?

Oh, just walking around, contemplating my failure, wishing for the sweet release of eternal extinction.

Cool.

[sighs]

Hey...
Why don't you want me to see Janet?
I'm a good guy.
All I want is to give Janet the life she deserves.

Janet is not built for human life, and I'm not sure you're much of a privider.
Do you even remember how you died?

No, not really.
It's a little fuzzy.

You and your friend Pillboi were trying to rob a restaurant.

Pillboi!

And then the cops showed up.

So the plan was to pretend to install a safe with your friend hiding inside it.
He pop out, steals the money from the restaurant, gets back in the safe, then you come in and uninstall it.

I refuse to discuss my Fitfh Amendment rights until I concur with your attorney.

Sure.
Look, we found your buddy's plans.
We know he was the... Brains.
You were just an accomplice.
If you get lucky, you might get probation.

Jason going to jail?

No, man.
Jason's dead. He sufforcated in that safe.
There were no airholes.
Plus he did a bunch of whippits while he was in there, which couldn't have helped.

At least he died doing what he loved... A bunch of whippits.
Now he's never gonna get the life he truly deserved.

Meh, I think he got roughly what he deserved.

I suffocated to death in a safe?
I'm a moron.


Jason, you are all that I care about, possibly because I did not have the capacity to care about anything before you.
I love you.
Also, interesting sidenote, I think I might hate things now, too.
So far, it's genocide, and leggings as pants.

This is nuts!
Just weighing in over here.
This is bonkers.
Okay, I have to go reboot Janet.

Why?

It's the only thing I can think of to do to get rid of this glitch.

Yo, who you calling a glitch?

It means "error," Jason, which is what this is.

Oh, really?
Is it an error to act unpredictably and behave in ways that run counter to how you were programmed to behave?

Yes.
Now, you two sit tight.
I'm gonna go murder Janet, and I'll be right back.

Where do you suppose she is?

I hope she's okay?
You know, the more I work on her case, the more I think she truly belongs here.

I'm... I'm sorry that I haven't been able to say...
What you want me to say, because I do want to say it.

What's holding you back?

Honestly, my biggest fear is just making sure that my motivation for saying it...

Chide?
